# CST_ODE: MATLAB Scripts for "Evaluation of vaginal microbiome equilibrium states identifies microbial parameters linked to resilience after menses and antibiotic therapy"

### Folder Layout

#### Run Files
The Run Files folder has scripts for generating each figure in the main text of the manuscript and the workspaces with any additional data needed to complete the analysis.

To run these scripts, you will need to add the ODE_Scripts, Global_Sensitivity andd General_Scripts file to your path as the run file scripts will call on the functions in those file.

#### ODE Scripts
The ODE Scripts folder contains the core functiions required to complete the simulations in the manuscript. The core model is found in _lhs_ode_gLV.m_ and is called within many of the other functions within the folder such as _change_parameter.m_, which runs the model for different parameter values.

Other functions in the folder help with assessment of analytical solutions of the model steady-states and use of the analytical solutions to explore the parameter space such as _sympbolic_solns.m_ and _calc_SS_stability.m_.

Lastly, there are functions that assist in assessing the response of the thousands of parameter sets generated by Latin Hypercube Sampling, such as _simulate_LHS_response.m_ and _analyze_Global_SS.m_.

#### Global Sensitivity
The Global Sensitiivity folder has files created originally by the Kirschner Lab group as described in their 2008 paper, ["A Methodology For Performing Global Uncertainty And Sensitivity Analysis in Systems Biology"](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2570191/). Some minor modifications were made to help easily modify entries for the global sensitivity analysis that were specific to our model.

Examples of how to run the analysis are in the **Run_Files** folder.

#### General Scripts
The general scripts folder have some files used to plot or visualize some aspects of model output as well as to handle in clinical relative abundance data.


